# CS-499-Category-3-Databases

Artifact name: Inventory app
Origin: CS-360 Mobile Architecture and Programming 
In CS-360 I learned to build an app from starch and with CS-340 I learned to create and maintain a database. The Inventory app is responsible to login the user or register the user, add items, delete items, view items, and update items. When the user adds an item, the user enters the name of the product, number of items, and the price of the product. All the information the user enters get saved in the database.
I chose to work with this artifact because it was a major part of my computer science degree. Through this major, I learned to use database such as SQL, MongoDB, and firebase database. I selected this artifact because the inventory app allowed me to recreate the login app with firebase authentication, register the user using the firebase database, and lastly insert all the information the user adds into the inventory app. This artifact shows my ability to involve in the engineering practice of validating the user interface, architecture, and design. Implementing a database allows the stored values to be used efficiently. On the start, my inventory App will allow the user to store, view, edit, create, and delete items from time to time. This app will allow users to register. All registration information will be saved into the firebase database. Each item added into the inventory app with name, price, and category will be saved into the database. The firebase database will permit customer service features such as forgot password or forgot username to let the user create a new password and retrieve their username. The firebase database would also allow CRUD operations. I improved the artifact by adding the firebase database to involve in authentication of the user login information and inserting the items into the inventory app. 
I met most of the objectives that I had planned to meet with this enhancement. I was unable to add the barcode feature to add, delete, and update information.
The artifact that I had submitted in milestone two: software engineering and design, I have made improvements on the same artifact. In the category 1 enhancement, I wanted to create a google login for my inventory app. This part of the category 1 enhancement was successful. For category 3: database, I wanted to incorporate the firebase database to register the user and complete authentication when the user logs into the inventory app. The other enhancement using the database was to be able to add items into the inventory app in respect to name of the item, number of units, and the price of the item. I did the following to add the user entered information in the database. When logged into the inventory app:
When the user selects add product on the main inventory screen. The add product screen will be displayed. I biggest challenge that I faced was to successfully add the item into the inventory system. The reason I was unsuccessful at the first couple of attempts was because I had not added a toast message to display when the add item was successful and unsuccessful. 
         


